Add blog post for 1.51.0 (#789)
rust-lang/blog.rust-lang.org: posts/2021-03-25-Rust-1.51.0.md

release: true
---

The Rust team is happy to announce a new version of Rust, 1.51.0. Rust is a
programming language that is empowering everyone to build reliable and
efficient software.

If you have a previous version of Rust installed via rustup, getting Rust
1.51.0 is as easy as:

```console
rustup update stable
```

If you don't have it already, you can [get `rustup`][install]
from the appropriate page on our website, and check out the
[detailed release notes for 1.51.0][notes] on GitHub.

[install]: https://www.rust-lang.org/install.html
[notes]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/RELEASES.md#version-1510-2021-03-25

## What's in 1.51.0 stable
This release represents one of the largest additions to the Rust language and cargo in quite a while. With the stabilization of const generics, and the new feature resolver, along with more minor additions such as the `split-debuginfo` option, and the `addr_of!` API. Let's dive right into it!

### Const Generics MVP
Before this release, Rust allowed you to haves your types be parameterized over lifetimes or types. For example if we wanted to have a `struct` that is generic over an array of 32 items, we'd write the following:

> ```rust
> struct FixedArray<T> {
>               // ^^^ Type generic definition
>     list: [T; 32]
>         // ^ Where we're using it.
> }
> 
> // `FixedArray<u8>` becomes
> struct FixedArray_u8 {
>     list: [u8; 32]
> }
> ```

Reviewer: I think this should be two separate code blocks (and the same for the code block a little later on) because the user *doesn't* write the monomorphized version, but you say "we'd write the following". Also I think it looks nicer as two code blocks.

`````suggestion
```rust
struct FixedArray<T> {
              // ^^^ Type generic definition
    list: [T; 32]
        // ^ Where we're using it.
}
```

If we then use `FixedArray<u8>`, the compiler will make a monomorphic version of `FixedArray` that looks like:

```
struct FixedArray_u8 {
    list: [u8; 32]
}
```
`````

This is a powerful feature that allows you to write reusable code with no runtime overhead. Enabling to have types that fit a wide variety of use-cases and types. However until this release we've haven't really been able to easily be generic over the *values* of those types. This most notable in arrays where they include their length in their type definition (`[T; N]`). Now with 1.51.0 you can now write code that is generic over the values of any number, `bool`, or `char` type! (Using `structs` and `enum` values are still unstable.)

This change now lets us have our own array struct that's generic over its type *and* its length. Let's look an example definition, and how it can be used.

```rust
struct Array<T, const LENGTH: usize> {
    //          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Const generic definition.
    list: [T; LENGTH]
    //        ^^^^^^ We use it here.
}

// Array<u8, 32> Becomes
struct Array_u8_32 {
    list: [u8; 32]
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: Yeah, I'm not sure if the monomorphized versions are too helpful - maybe we can just show the type of the field (i.e., list) and say it's monomorphized from `[T; N]` to `[u8; 32]` in `Array<u8, 32>`? I think that'd be less confusing

- **Host Dependencies** — When a package is shared as a normal dependency and a build-dependency or proc-macro, the features for the normal dependency are kept independent of the build-dependency or proc-macro.
- **Target dependencies** — When a package appears multiple times in the build graph, and one of those instances is a target-specific dependency, then the features of the target-specific dependency are only enabled if the target is currently being built.

While this can lead to a compiling some crates more than once, this should provide a much more intuitive development experience when using features with cargo. If you'd like to know more, you can also read the ["Feature Resolver"][feature-resolver@2.0] section in the Cargo Book for more information. We'd like to thank the cargo team and everyone involved for all their hard work in designing and implementing this new feature (resolver)!

[feature-resolver@2.0]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/features.html#feature-resolver-version-2

### Splitting Debug Information

> While not often highlighted in the release, the Rust teams are constantly working on improving compile Rust's compile times, and this release marks one of the biggest improvements in a long time for Rust on macOS platforms. Debug information is code that maps the binary code back to your source code, so that the program can give you more information about what when wrong at run time. In macOS this is done with a tool called `dsymutil` which collects all the debug information into a single `.dSYM` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
While not often highlighted in the release, the Rust teams are constantly working on improving Rust's compile times, and this release marks one of the biggest improvements in a long time for Rust on macOS platforms. Debug information is code that maps the binary code back to your source code, so that the program can give you more information about what when wrong at run time. In macOS this is done with a tool called `dsymutil` which collects all the debug information into a single `.dSYM` folder.
```

This tool provides a lot of benefits, however one of the drawbacks has been that `dsymutil` is not really compatible with incremental recompilation. That means even when you make a small change such as a function name, `dsymutil` will need to run over the entire final binary to produce the final `.dSYM` folder. This can add a lot to the build time, especially for larger projects, but this has been a necessary step as without it Rust wouldn't be able to parse debug info on macOS.

> With the implementation of the Rust based `backtrace` crate backend, we're now able to parse debuginfo even without running `dsymutil`. This can significantly speed up builds that include debuginfo. We haven't run extensive benchmarks but we've seen a lot of anecdata of people's builds building a lot faster on macOS with this behaviour.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With the implementation of the Rust based `backtrace` crate backend, we're now able to parse debuginfo even without running `dsymutil`. This can significantly speed up builds that include debuginfo and significantly reduce the amount of disk space used. We haven't run extensive benchmarks but we've seen a lot of anecdata of people's builds building a lot faster on macOS with this behaviour.
```

---
layout: post
title: "Announcing Rust 1.51.0"
author: The Rust Release Team
release: true
---

> The Rust team is happy to announce a new version of Rust, 1.50.0. Rust is a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Rust team is happy to announce a new version of Rust, 1.51.0. Rust is a
```

programming language that is empowering everyone to build reliable and
efficient software.

If you have a previous version of Rust installed via rustup, getting Rust

> 1.50.0 is as easy as:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1.51.0 is as easy as:
```

```console
rustup update stable
```

If you don't have it already, you can [get `rustup`][install]
from the appropriate page on our website, and check out the

> [detailed release notes for 1.50.0][notes] on GitHub.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[detailed release notes for 1.51.0][notes] on GitHub.
```

[install]: https://www.rust-lang.org/install.html

> [notes]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/RELEASES.md#version-1500-2021-02-11

Reviewer 4: This points to the 1.50.0 changelog

> [notes]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/RELEASES.md#version-1500-2021-02-11

Author: ```suggestion
[notes]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/RELEASES.md#version-1510-2021-03-25
```

## What's in 1.51.0 stable

> This release represents one of the largest additions to the Rust language and cargo in quite awhile. With the stabilization of const generics, and the new feature resolver, along with more minor additions such as the `split-debuginfo` option, and the `addr_of!` API. This has been one of the biggest releases in a long time. Let's dive right into it!

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
This release represents one of the largest additions to the Rust language and cargo in quite a while. With the stabilization of const generics, and the new feature resolver, along with more minor additions such as the `split-debuginfo` option, and the `addr_of!` API. This has been one of the biggest releases in a long time. Let's dive right into it!
```

> This release represents one of the largest additions to the Rust language and cargo in quite a while. With the stabilization of const generics, and the new feature resolver, along with more minor additions such as the `split-debuginfo` option, and the `addr_of!` API. This has been one of the biggest releases in a long time. Let's dive right into it!

Reviewer 6: The second "this has been one of the biggest releases in a long time" feels a bit repetitive.

### Const Generics MVP
Before this release, Rust allowed you to haves your types be parameterized over lifetimes or types. For example if we wanted to have a `struct` that is generic over an array of 32 items, we'd write the following:

```rust
struct FixedArray<T> {
              // ^^^ Type generic definition
    list: [T; 32]
        // ^ Where we're using it.
}

// `FixedArray<u8>`
// becomes
// ```
// struct FixedArray_u8 {
//     list: [u8; 32]
// }

> // ```

Reviewer: It seems kind of confusing to have code inside a comment inside code here. I suggest ending the previous code block before the "becomes" part and then using a new code block for the `FixedArray_u8` part.

```

This is a powerful feature that allows you to write reusable code with no runtime overhead. Enabling to have types that fit a wide variety of use-cases and types. However until this release we've haven't really been able to easily be generic over the *values* of those types. This most notable in arrays where they include their length in their type definition (`[T; N]`). Now with 1.51.0 you can now write code that is generic over the values of any number, `bool`, or `char` type! (Using `structs` and `enum` values are still unstable.)

This change now lets us have our own array struct that's generic over its type *and* its length. Let's look an example definition, and how it can be used.

```rust
struct Array<T, const LENGTH: usize> {

>     //          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ `const` generic definition.
>     list: [T; LENGTH]
>     //        ^^^^^^ Where we're using it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    //          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Const generic definition.
    list: [T; LENGTH]
    //        ^^^^^^ We use it here.
```

}

// Array<u8, 32>
// Becomes 
// ```
// struct Array_u8_32 {
//     list: [u8; 32]
// }
// ```

impl<T, const LENGTH: usize> Array<T, LENGTH> {
    fn last(&self) -> Option<&T> {
        if LENGTH == 0 {
        // ^^^^^^^^^^^ This is always `true` for `Array<T, 0>`.
            None
        } else {

>             self.list[LENGTH - 1]

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
            Some(self.list[LENGTH - 1])
```

However, this also comes with a downside, what if `A` and `B` are incompatible? What if your own code is compatible with `foo` but not `foo+A`? A common example of this in the ecosystem is the optional `std` feature included in many `#![no_std]` crates, that allows crates to provide added functionality when `std` is available. Now imagine you want to use the `#![no_std]` version of `foo` in your `#![no_std]` binary, and use the `foo` at build time in your `build.rs`, if your build time dependency depends on `foo+std`, your binary now also depends on `foo+std`, which means it will no longer compile because `std` is not available for your target platform. 

> This has been a long standing issue in cargo, and with this release there's a new `resolver` option in your `Cargo.toml`, where you can set `resolver="2"` to tell cargo to try a new approach to resolving features, you can check out [RFC 2957] a detailed description of the behaviour, but it can summarised as follows.

Reviewer 6: How to enable the feature is a bit hidden in the middle of the sentence, while for other things that need to be enabled (like debuginfo on macOS) we provide a code snippet at the end of the section. Maybe we could do the same here?

- **Dev dependencies** — When a package is shared as a normal dependency and a dev-dependency, the dev-dependency features are only enabled if the current build is including dev-dependencies.
- **Host Dependencies** — When a package is shared as a normal dependency and a build-dependency or proc-macro, the features for the normal dependency are kept independent of the build-dependency or proc-macro.
- **Target dependencies** — When a package appears multiple times in the build graph, and one of those instances is a target-specific dependency, then the features of the target-specific dependency are only enabled if the target is currently being built.

> While this can lead to a compiling some crates more than once, this should provide a much more intuitive development experience when using features with cargo. If you'd like to know more, you can also read the ["Feature Resolver"][feature-resolver@2.0] section in the Cargo Book for more information. We'd like to thank the cargo team and everyone involved for all their hard work in designing and implementing this new feature (resolver)!

Reviewer 8: I think at least the 'a' should be removed from the sentence below:
_While this can lead to a compiling some crates more than once_
But I think that the sentence below would be even better:
_While this can lead to some crates compiling more than once_

[feature-resolver@2.0]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/features.html#feature-resolver-version-2

### Splitting Debug Information

> While not often highlighted in the release, the Rust teams are constantly working on improving compile Rust's compile times, and this release marks one biggest improvements in a long time for Rust on macOS platforms. Debug information is code that maps the binary code back to your source code, so that the program can give you more information about what when wrong at run time. In macOS this is done with a tool called `dsymutil` which collects all the debug information into a single `.dSYM` file.

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
While not often highlighted in the release, the Rust teams are constantly working on improving compile Rust's compile times, and this release marks one of the biggest improvements in a long time for Rust on macOS platforms. Debug information is code that maps the binary code back to your source code, so that the program can give you more information about what when wrong at run time. In macOS this is done with a tool called `dsymutil` which collects all the debug information into a single `.dSYM` file.
```
or
```suggestion
While not often highlighted in the release, the Rust teams are constantly working on improving compile Rust's compile times, and this release marks the biggest improvements in a long time for Rust on macOS platforms. Debug information is code that maps the binary code back to your source code, so that the program can give you more information about what when wrong at run time. In macOS this is done with a tool called `dsymutil` which collects all the debug information into a single `.dSYM` file.
```

> This tool provides a lot of benefits, however one of the drawbacks has been that `dsymutil` is not really compatible with incremental recompilation, so even when you make a small change such as a function name, `dsymutil` will need to run over the entire final binary to produce the final `.dSYM` folder. This can add a lot to the build time, especially for larger projects, however this has been a necessary step as without it Rust wouldn't be able to parse debug info on macOS.
> 
> However with the implementation of the Rust based `backtrace` crate backend, we're now able to parse debuginfo even without running `dsymutil`. This can significantly speed up builds that include debuginfo. We haven't ran extensive benchmarks but we've seen a lot of anecdata of people's builds building a lot faster on macOS with this behaviour.

Reviewer 5: nit: you say 'however' quite a lot, maybe change the wording a little?
```suggestion
This tool provides a lot of benefits, however one of the drawbacks has been that `dsymutil` is not really compatible with incremental recompilation. That means even when you make a small change such as a function name, `dsymutil` will need to run over the entire final binary to produce the final `.dSYM` folder. This can add a lot to the build time, especially for larger projects, but this has been a necessary step as without it Rust wouldn't be able to parse debug info on macOS.

With the implementation of the Rust based `backtrace` crate backend, we're now able to parse debuginfo even without running `dsymutil`. This can significantly speed up builds that include debuginfo. We haven't run extensive benchmarks but we've seen a lot of anecdata of people's builds building a lot faster on macOS with this behaviour.
```

> You can enable this new behaviour by setting. the `-Csplit-debuginfo=unpacked` flag when running `rustc`, or by setting the [`split-debuginfo`] `[profile]` option to `unpacked` in Cargo.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
You can enable this new behaviour by setting the `-Csplit-debuginfo=unpacked` flag when running `rustc`, or by setting the [`split-debuginfo`] `[profile]` option to `unpacked` in Cargo.
```

```toml
[profile.dev]
split-debuginfo = "unpacked"
```

> [`split-debuginfo`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/profiles.html#split-debuginfo

Reviewer 9: Maybe add some info that when using `unpacked` it is not possible to distribute a program with debuginfo without distributing the entire `target` dir?

Reviewer 3: To add to this, I feel like this is missing a major component of what `split-debuginfo="unpacked"` does.  I'm wondering if it might be helpful to include a short paragraph at the end here explaining the difference.  Maybe something like the following:

The "unpacked" option instructs `rustc` to leave the `.o` object files in the build output directory instead of deleting them, and skips the step of running `dsymutil`. Rust's backtrace support is smart enough to know how to find these `.o` files. Tools such as `lldb` also know how to do this. This should work as long as you don't need to move the binary to a different location while retaining the debug information.

I'm not sure if that's too technical for a blog post, though.

### Stabilized APIs

> In total, this release saw the stabilisation of 18 new methods for various types like `slice` and `Peekable`. One notable addition is the stabilisation of `ptr::add_of!` and `ptr::addr_of_mut!`, which allow you to create unaligned references to data	, previously this wasn't possible because Rust requires `&/&mut` to be aligned and point to initialized data, and `&addr as *const _` would cause undefined behaviour `&addr` needs to be aligned. These two macros now let you safely create unaligned references.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
In total, this release saw the stabilisation of 18 new methods for various types like `slice` and `Peekable`. One notable addition is the stabilisation of `ptr::addr_of!` and `ptr::addr_of_mut!`, which allow you to create unaligned references to data	, previously this wasn't possible because Rust requires `&/&mut` to be aligned and point to initialized data, and `&addr as *const _` would cause undefined behaviour `&addr` needs to be aligned. These two macros now let you safely create unaligned references.
```

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
In total, this release saw the stabilisation of 18 new methods for various types like `slice` and `Peekable`. One notable addition is the stabilisation of `ptr::addr_of!` and `ptr::addr_of_mut!`, which allow you to create unaligned references to data	, previously this wasn't possible because Rust requires `&/&mut` to be aligned and point to initialized data, and `&addr as *const _` would cause undefined behaviour as `&addr` needs to be aligned. These two macros now let you safely create unaligned references.
```

> In total, this release saw the stabilisation of 18 new methods for various types like `slice` and `Peekable`. One notable addition is the stabilisation of `ptr::addr_of!` and `ptr::addr_of_mut!`, which allow you to create unaligned references to data	, previously this wasn't possible because Rust requires `&/&mut` to be aligned and point to initialized data, and `&addr as *const _` would cause undefined behaviour as `&addr` needs to be aligned. These two macros now let you safely create unaligned references.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
In total, this release saw the stabilisation of 18 new methods for various types like `slice` and `Peekable`. One notable addition is the stabilisation of `ptr::addr_of!` and `ptr::addr_of_mut!`, which allow you to create unaligned references to data. Previously this wasn't possible because Rust requires `&/&mut` to be aligned and point to initialized data, and `&addr as *const _` would cause undefined behaviour as `&addr` needs to be aligned. These two macros now let you safely create unaligned references.
```

```rust
use std::ptr;

#[repr(packed)]
struct Packed {
    f1: u8,
    f2: u16,
}

let packed = Packed { f1: 1, f2: 2 };
// `&packed.f2` would create an unaligned reference, and thus be Undefined Behavior!
let raw_f2 = ptr::addr_of!(packed.f2);
assert_eq!(unsafe { raw_f2.read_unaligned() }, 2);
```

The following methods were stabilised.

- [`Arc::decrement_strong_count`]
- [`Arc::increment_strong_count`]
- [`Once::call_once_force`]
- [`Peekable::next_if_eq`]
- [`Peekable::next_if`]
- [`Seek::stream_position`]

> - [`array::IntoIter`]

Reviewer 7: I think `array::IntoIter` should definitely get its own dedicated section as this is a fairly huge improvement (and it's probably worth detailing the plans regarding it's stabilization and the eventual IntoIterator impl directly on arrays).

[`array::IntoIter`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/array/struct.IntoIter.html
[`slice::split_inclusive`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_inclusive
[`slice::split_inclusive_mut`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_inclusive_mut
[`str::split_inclusive`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/primitive.str.html#method.split_inclusive
[`task::Wake`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/task/trait.Wake.html
[`Seek::stream_position`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/io/trait.Seek.html#method.stream_position
[`Peekable::next_if`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/iter/struct.Peekable.html#method.next_if
[`Peekable::next_if_eq`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/iter/struct.Peekable.html#method.next_if_eq

### Other changes

There are other changes in the Rust 1.51.0 release: check out what changed in [Rust](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/RELEASES.md#version-1510-2021-03-25), [Cargo](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#cargo-151-2021-03-25), and [Clippy](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#rust-151).

> ### Contributors to 1.50.0

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Contributors to 1.51.0
```

---
layout: post
title: "Announcing Rust 1.51.0"
author: The Rust Release Team
release: true
---

The Rust team is happy to announce a new version of Rust, 1.51.0. Rust is a
programming language that is empowering everyone to build reliable and
efficient software.

If you have a previous version of Rust installed via rustup, getting Rust
1.51.0 is as easy as:

```console
rustup update stable
```

If you don't have it already, you can [get `rustup`][install]
from the appropriate page on our website, and check out the
[detailed release notes for 1.51.0][notes] on GitHub.

[install]: https://www.rust-lang.org/install.html
[notes]: https://github.com/rust-lang/rust/blob/master/RELEASES.md#version-1510-2021-03-25

## What's in 1.51.0 stable

> This release represents one of the largest additions to the Rust language and cargo in quite a while. With the stabilization of const generics, and the new feature resolver, along with more minor additions such as the `split-debuginfo` option, and the `addr_of!` API. Let's dive right into it!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This release represents one of the largest additions to the Rust language and Cargo in quite a while, stabilizing an MVP of const generics and a new feature resolver for Cargo. Let's dive right into it!
```

### Const Generics MVP

> Before this release, Rust allowed you to haves your types be parameterized over lifetimes or types. For example if we wanted to have a `struct` that is generic over an array of 32 items, we'd write the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before this release, Rust allowed you to haves your types be parameterized over lifetimes or types. For example if we wanted to have a `struct` that is generic over the element type of an array of 32 items, we'd write the following:
```

I think previously to me this somehow wasn't computing in terms of what exactly we were generic over...

```rust
struct FixedArray<T> {
              // ^^^ Type generic definition
    list: [T; 32]
        // ^ Where we're using it.
}
```

If we then use `FixedArray<u8>`, the compiler will make a monomorphic version of `FixedArray` that looks like:

> ```

Reviewer 10: ```suggestion
```rust
```

Hope this is helpful

struct FixedArray_u8 {
    list: [u8; 32]
}
```

> This is a powerful feature that allows you to write reusable code with no runtime overhead. Enabling to have types that fit a wide variety of use-cases and types. However, until this release it hasn't been possible to easily be generic over the *values* of those types. This was most notable in arrays where they include their length in their type definition (`[T; N]`). Now with 1.51.0 you can write code that is generic over the values of any integer, `bool`, or `char` type! (Using `structs` and `enum` values are still unstable.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a powerful feature that allows you to write reusable code with no runtime overhead. Enabling to have types that fit a wide variety of use-cases and types. However, until this release it hasn't been possible to easily be generic over the *values* of those types. This was most notable in arrays where they include their length in their type definition (`[T; N]`). Now with 1.51.0 you can write code that is generic over the values of any integer, `bool`, or `char` type! (Using `struct` or `enum` values is still unstable.)
```

> This is a powerful feature that allows you to write reusable code with no runtime overhead. Enabling to have types that fit a wide variety of use-cases and types. However, until this release it hasn't been possible to easily be generic over the *values* of those types. This was most notable in arrays where they include their length in their type definition (`[T; N]`). Now with 1.51.0 you can write code that is generic over the values of any integer, `bool`, or `char` type! (Using `struct` or `enum` values is still unstable.)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a powerful feature that allows you to write reusable code with no runtime overhead. However, until this release it hasn't been possible to easily be generic over the *values* of those types. This was most notable in arrays where they include their length in their type definition (`[T; N]`). Now with 1.51.0 you can write code that is generic over the values of any integer, `bool`, or `char` type! (Using `struct` or `enum` values is still unstable.)
```

I think this sentence wasn't fitting in for me and doesn't feel like it particularly adds a lot.

This change now lets us have our own array struct that's generic over its type *and* its length. Let's look at an example definition, and how it can be used.

```rust
struct Array<T, const LENGTH: usize> {
    //          ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ Const generic definition.
    list: [T; LENGTH]
    //        ^^^^^^ We use it here.
}
```

Now if we then used `Array<u8, 32>`, the compiler will make a monomorphic version of `Array` that looks like:

```rust

> // Array<u8, 32> Becomes

Reviewer: nit: Seems a bit redundant given the sentence above.

```suggestion
```

    list: [u8; 32]
}
```

> Const generics also allows to write our methods in a new way. Let's see what a `fn last(&self) -> Option<&T>` implementation could look like:

Reviewer 2: Hm, can you say more about what this is intended to reference? I guess this example feels interesting but I'm not sure what it's trying to highlight about a 'new way' -- it was always possible to use constants in methods, just now we're generic, but it doesn't seem particularly different

> Const generics also allows to write our methods in a new way. Let's see at what a `fn last(&self) -> Option<&T>` implementation could look like:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Const generics also allows to write our methods in a new way. Let's look at what a `fn last(&self) -> Option<&T>` implementation could look like:
```

or

```suggestion
Const generics also allows to write our methods in a new way. Let's see what a `fn last(&self) -> Option<&T>` implementation could look like:
```

```rust
fn main() {
  let array = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
  
  // Previously
  for item in array.iter().copied() {
      println!("{}", item);
  }
  
  // Now
  for item in std::array::IntoIter::new(array) {
      println!("{}", item);
  }
}
```

### Cargo's New Feature Resolver
Dependency management is a hard problem, and one of the hardest parts of it is just picking what *version* of a dependency to use when it's depended on by two different packages. This doesn't just include its version number, but also what features are or aren't enabled for the package. Cargo's default behaviour is to merge features for a single package. Let's say you had a dependency called `foo` with features A and B, which was being used by packages `bar` and `baz`, but `bar` depends on `foo+A` and `baz` depends on `foo+B`. Cargo will merge both of those features and compile `foo` as `foo+AB`. This has a benefit that you only have to compile `foo` once, and then it can reused for both `foo` and `bar`.

> However, this also comes with a downside. What if `A` and `B` are incompatible? What if your own code is compatible with `foo` but not `foo+A`? A common example of this in the ecosystem is the optional `std` feature included in many `#![no_std]` crates, that allows crates to provide added functionality when `std` is available. Now imagine you want to use the `#![no_std]` version of `foo` in your `#![no_std]` binary, and use the `foo` at build time in your `build.rs`. If your build time dependency depends on `foo+std`, your binary now also depends on `foo+std`, which means it will no longer compile because `std` is not available for your target platform. 

Reviewer 2: I think I would drop A and B being incompatible, as likely the support in this version of Cargo won't help there AFAIK; we mostly help when you have the feature X being incompatible with some host or target, I think? (i.e., only when the dependencies are split across profiles, rather than being able to split a dependency in two when compiling for the same target).

Reviewer 3: Yea, maybe the second sentence could be rewritten to:

> What if a feature enabled in a build-dependency is not compatible with the target you are building for?

However, this also comes with a downside. What if `A` and `B` are incompatible? What if your own code is compatible with `foo` but not `foo+A`? A common example of this in the ecosystem is the optional `std` feature included in many `#![no_std]` crates, that allows crates to provide added functionality when `std` is available. Now imagine you want to use the `#![no_std]` version of `foo` in your `#![no_std]` binary, and use the `foo` at build time in your `build.rs`. If your build time dependency depends on `foo+std`, your binary now also depends on `foo+std`, which means it will no longer compile because `std` is not available for your target platform. 

> This has been a long-standing issue in cargo, and with this release there's a new `resolver` option in your `Cargo.toml`, where you can set `resolver="2"` to tell cargo to try a new approach to resolving features. You can check out [RFC 2957] for a detailed description of the behaviour, which can be summarised as follows.

Reviewer 3: `[RFC 2957]` is missing a link.  https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2957-cargo-features2.html would probably work.

- **Dev dependencies** — When a package is shared as a normal dependency and a dev-dependency, the dev-dependency features are only enabled if the current build is including dev-dependencies.
- **Host Dependencies** — When a package is shared as a normal dependency and a build-dependency or proc-macro, the features for the normal dependency are kept independent of the build-dependency or proc-macro.
- **Target dependencies** — When a package appears multiple times in the build graph, and one of those instances is a target-specific dependency, then the features of the target-specific dependency are only enabled if the target is currently being built.

> While this can lead to some crates compiling more than once, this should provide a much more intuitive development experience when using features with cargo. If you'd like to know more, you can also read the ["Feature Resolver"][feature-resolver@2.0] section in the Cargo Book for more information. We'd like to thank the cargo team and everyone involved for all their hard work in designing and implementing this new feature (resolver)!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this can lead to some crates compiling more than once, this should provide a much more intuitive development experience when using features with cargo. If you'd like to know more, you can also read the ["Feature Resolver"][feature-resolver@2.0] section in the Cargo Book for more information. We'd like to thank the cargo team and everyone involved for all their hard work in designing and implementing this new resolver!
```

Do you think it's worth explicitly calling out that the feature is backwards compatible (i.e., that without enabling it no change will be visible)?

Reviewer 3: If I understand your question correctly, I think this is implied by the text above saying it is opt-in and requires updating `Cargo.toml` to use it.  Or am I misunderstanding?

Reviewer 2: @ehuss but you probably *don't* want to change Cargo.toml, as that's checked into git / published, and not everyone will be on macOS?

```toml
[package]
resolver = "2"
# Or if you're using a workspace
[workspace]
resolver = "2"
```

[rfc 2957]: https://rust-lang.github.io/rfcs/2957-cargo-features2.html
[feature-resolver@2.0]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/features.html#feature-resolver-version-2

### Splitting Debug Information

> While not often highlighted in the release, the Rust teams are constantly working on improving Rust's compile times, and this release marks one of the biggest improvements in a long time for Rust on macOS platforms. Debug information is code that maps the binary code back to your source code, so that the program can give you more information about what went wrong at run time. In macOS this is done with a tool called `dsymutil` which collects all the debug information into a single `.dSYM` folder.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While not often highlighted in the release, the Rust teams are constantly working on improving Rust's compile times, and this release marks one of the largest improvements in a long time for Rust on macOS platforms. Debug information is code that maps the binary code back to your source code, so that the program can give you more information about what went wrong at runtime. In macOS, debug info is typically collected using a tool called `dsymutil` which places all the debug information into a single `.dSYM` folder.
```

> This tool provides a lot of benefits, however, one of the drawbacks has been that `dsymutil` is not really compatible with incremental recompilation. This means that even when you make a small change such as a function name, `dsymutil` will need to run over the entire final binary to produce the final `.dSYM` folder. This can sometimes add a lot to the build time, (especially for larger projects), but this has been a necessary step as without it Rust wouldn't be able to parse debug info on macOS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tool provides a lot of benefits, however, one of the drawbacks has been that `dsymutil` is not really compatible with incremental recompilation. This means that even when you make a small change such as a function name, `dsymutil` will need to run over the entire final binary to produce the final `.dSYM` folder. This can sometimes add a lot to the build time, especially for larger projects, as each dependency needs to be recollected, but this has been a necessary step as without it Rust wouldn't be able to load the debug info on macOS.
```

> With the implementation of the Rust-based `backtrace` crate backend, we can now parse debuginfo even without running `dsymutil`. This can significantly speed up builds that include debuginfo and significantly reduce the amount of disk space used. We haven't run extensive benchmarks but have seen a lot of anecdata of people's builds building a lot faster on macOS with this behaviour.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Recently, Rust backtraces switched to using a different backend which supports loading debuginfo without needing to run `dsymutil`. This can significantly speed up builds that include debuginfo and significantly reduce the amount of disk space used. We haven't run extensive benchmarks but have seen a lot of reports of people's builds being a lot faster on macOS with this behavior.
```

You can enable this new behaviour by setting the `-Csplit-debuginfo=unpacked` flag when running `rustc`, or by setting the [`split-debuginfo`] `[profile]` option to `unpacked` in Cargo. The "unpacked" option instructs rustc to leave the .o object files in the build output directory instead of deleting them, and skips the step of running dsymutil. Rust's backtrace support is smart enough to know how to find these .o files. Tools such as lldb also know how to do this. This should work as long as you don't need to move the binary to a different location while retaining the debug information.

```toml
[profile.dev]

> split-debuginfo = "unpacked"

Reviewer 2: We should tell people that they likely want to put this in ~/.cargo/config I think, not Cargo.toml and only on macOS, right? On other platforms this will lead to an error indicating that unpacked behavior is currently unstable I suspect.

Reviewer 3: It is ignored on other platforms, so it shouldn't cause an error.

It wouldn't hurt to suggest using a config file.  I'm not sure if this blog post is getting a little too long, though.

Here's a hastily written suggestion:

> You can place the profile definition in a local Cargo config file `.cargo/config.toml` if you don't want to include it in the `Cargo.toml` shared with everyone. The `split-debuginfo` setting will be ignored on platforms where it is not supported.

Reviewer 2: Ah, ok, if it's ignored seems good - I think I may have been confused as rustc claims it will error.

Reviewer 3: Ah, yes, the ignore behavior is cargo-specific (it probes if it is supported).  `rustc` itself returns an error if not supported.

```

[`split-debuginfo`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/cargo/reference/profiles.html#split-debuginfo

### Stabilized APIs

> In total, this release saw the stabilisation of 18 new methods for various types like `slice` and `Peekable`. One notable addition is the stabilisation of `ptr::addr_of!` and `ptr::addr_of_mut!`, which allow you to create unaligned references to data. Previously this wasn't possible because Rust requires `&/&mut` to be aligned and point to initialized data, and `&addr as *const _` would cause undefined behaviour as `&addr` needs to be aligned. These two macros now let you safely create unaligned references.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In total, this release saw the stabilisation of 18 new methods for various types like `slice` and `Peekable`. One notable addition is the stabilisation of `ptr::addr_of!` and `ptr::addr_of_mut!`, which allow you to create raw pointers to unaligned fields. Previously this wasn't possible because Rust requires `&/&mut` to be aligned and point to initialized data, and `&addr as *const _` would then cause undefined behaviour as `&addr` needs to be aligned. These two macros now let you safely create unaligned pointers.
```

Unaligned references are still UB to create, and previously it was impossible and/or really hard to get unaligned pointers from a field as well.

// `&packed.f2` would create an unaligned reference, and thus be Undefined Behavior!
let raw_f2 = ptr::addr_of!(packed.f2);
assert_eq!(unsafe { raw_f2.read_unaligned() }, 2);
```

The following methods were stabilised.

- [`Arc::decrement_strong_count`]
- [`Arc::increment_strong_count`]
- [`Once::call_once_force`]
- [`Peekable::next_if_eq`]
- [`Peekable::next_if`]
- [`Seek::stream_position`]
- [`array::IntoIter`]
- [`panic::panic_any`]
- [`ptr::addr_of!`]
- [`ptr::addr_of_mut!`]
- [`slice::fill_with`]
- [`slice::split_inclusive_mut`]
- [`slice::split_inclusive`]
- [`slice::strip_prefix`]
- [`slice::strip_suffix`]
- [`str::split_inclusive`]
- [`sync::OnceState`]
- [`task::Wake`]

[`Once::call_once_force`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/sync/struct.Once.html#method.call_once_force
[`sync::OnceState`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/sync/struct.OnceState.html
[`panic::panic_any`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/panic/fn.panic_any.html
[`slice::strip_prefix`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.strip_prefix
[`slice::strip_suffix`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/primitive.slice.html#method.strip_prefix

> [`Arc::increment_strong_count`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/sync/struct.Arc.html#method.increment_strong_count
> [`Arc::decrement_strong_count`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/sync/struct.Arc.html#method.decrement_strong_count

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`Arc::increment_strong_count`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/sync/struct.Arc.html#method.increment_strong_count
[`Arc::decrement_strong_count`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/stable/std/sync/struct.Arc.html#method.decrement_strong_count
```

[`slice::fill_with`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/primitive.slice.html#method.fill_with
[`ptr::addr_of!`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/ptr/macro.addr_of.html
[`ptr::addr_of_mut!`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/ptr/macro.addr_of_mut.html
[`array::IntoIter`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/array/struct.IntoIter.html
[`slice::split_inclusive`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_inclusive
[`slice::split_inclusive_mut`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/primitive.slice.html#method.split_inclusive_mut
[`str::split_inclusive`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/primitive.str.html#method.split_inclusive
[`task::Wake`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/task/trait.Wake.html
[`Seek::stream_position`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/io/trait.Seek.html#method.stream_position
[`Peekable::next_if`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/iter/struct.Peekable.html#method.next_if

> [`Peekable::next_if_eq`]: https://doc.rust-lang.org/nightly/std/iter/struct.Peekable.html#method.next_if_eq

Reviewer 2: Looks like a bunch of these are /nightly/ actually, probably want to be /stable/
